# OntCatOWL-Dataset

Dataset with results of OntCatOWL tests performed on the OntoUML/UFO Catalog.

## Description

This dataset is composed of files with results of [OntCatOWL](https://github.com/unibz-core/OntCatOWL) tests performed on the [OntoUML/UFO Catalog](https://github.com/unibz-core/ontouml-models). The FAIR Model Catalog for Ontology-Driven Conceptual Modeling Research, short-named OntoUML/UFO Catalog, is a structured and open-source catalog that contains OntoUML and UFO ontology models. This catalog was conceived to allow collaborative work and to be easily accessible to all its users. The catalog's goal is to support empirical research in OntoUML and UFO, as well as for the general conceptual modeling area, by providing high-quality curated, structured, and machine-processable data on why, where, and how different modeling approaches are used. The catalog offers a diverse collection of conceptual models, created by modelers with varying modeling skills, for a range of domains, and for different purposes.

The tests were performed using the automation tool named [OntCatOWL-Tester](https://github.com/unibz-core/OntCatOWL-Tester), which runs over OntCatOWL. OntCatOWL is the abbreviated name for Identification of Ontological Categories for OWL Ontologies, a software that aims to support the semi-automatic improvement of semantic web ontologies. We reached the semantic improvement via the association of [gUFO](https://nemo-ufes.github.io/gufo/) concepts to the OWL entities. The aim of gUFO is “*to provide a lightweight implementation of the Unified Foundational Ontology (UFO) suitable for Semantic Web OWL 2 DL applications*”.

## Table of Contents

## Test 1

### Test Result Files

Each section below presents a different type of file that is generated by Test 1 and their content.

#### Execution Summary CSV Files

The execution summary registers the input class and its classification used in each one of the OntCatOWL executions performed on the model.

A single file entitled `execution_summary.csv` is generated for each model aggregating information about all its OntCatOWL executions. The items registered in the csv files are:

- `execution_number`: is the first column of the csv file. Registers the number of the execution of the test in which the next fields were measured or calculated.
- `input_class_name`: name of the model’s class used as input for performing the execution of OntCatOWL.
- `input_class_stereotype`: “stereotype” of input class. This information is, in fact, a gUFO classification got via a mapping from the original OntoUML stereotype of the class.

#### Execution Statistics CSV Files

This file registers statistics related to numbers and percentages of classes, classifications, and other information obtained from the software execution.

For an easier presentation, we are going to classify the data presented in this file into three groups: classes, classifications, and others. Note that the order of the items being described does not correspond to the order they are ordered in the csv file.

A single file entitled `execution_statistics.csv` is generated for each model aggregating information about all its OntCatOWL executions.

##### Classes

Classes items always have the term "classes_". The different measured or calculated aspects are:

- Measuring moments: before (_b), after (_a), and difference (prefix diff and suffix _d) between the measuring moments.
- Knowledge about a class classification: totally unknown (_tu), partially known (_pk), totally known (_tk).
- Data format: measured values (suffix _v) (i.e., units), and percentages (suffix _p).

###### List of Items

- `classes_b_total_classes_number`: total number of classes in the file `taxonomy.ttl` used in the software **before** the execution of OntCatOWL rules. As no class is included or excluded during the execution of the software, classes_b_total_classes_number = classes_a_total_classes_number.
- `classes_b_tu_classes_types_v`: number of classes with no information about their classifications (i.e., totally unknown classes) before the OntCatOWL execution.
- `classes_b_pk_classes_types_v`: number of classes with partial information known about their classifications (i.e., partially known classes) before the OntCatOWL execution.
- `classes_b_tk_classes_types_v`: number of classes with complete information known about their classifications (i.e., totally known classes) before the OntCatOWL execution.
- `classes_b_tu_classes_types_p`: percentage of totally unknown classes before the OntCatOWL execution with relation to the total number of classes. Calculation formula is: classes_b_tu_classes_types_p  = classes_b_tu_classes_types_v/classes_b_total_classes_number.
- `classes_b_pk_classes_types_p`: percentage of partially known classes before the OntCatOWL execution with relation to the total number of classes. Calculation formula is: classes_b_pk_classes_types_p  = classes_b_pk_classes_types_v/classes_b_total_classes_number.
- `classes_b_tk_classes_types_p`: percentage of totally known classes before the OntCatOWL execution with relation to the total number of classes. Calculation formula is: classes_b_tk_classes_types_p  = classes_b_tk_classes_types_v/classes_b_total_classes_number.
- `classes_a_total_classes_number`: total number of classes in the file `taxonomy.ttl` used in the software **after** the execution of OntCatOWL rules. As no class is included or excluded during the execution of the software, classes_b_total_classes_number = classes_a_total_classes_number.
- `classes_a_tu_classes_types_v`: number of classes with no information about their classifications (i.e., totally unknown classes) after the OntCatOWL execution.
- `classes_a_pk_classes_types_v`: number of classes with partial information known about their classifications (i.e., partially known classes) after the OntCatOWL execution.
- `classes_a_tk_classes_types_v`: number of classes with complete information known about their classifications (i.e., totally known classes) after the OntCatOWL execution.
- `classes_a_tu_classes_types_p`: percentage of totally unknown classes after the OntCatOWL execution with relation to the total number of classes. Calculation formula is: classes_a_tu_classes_types_p  = classes_a_tu_classes_types_v/classes_a_total_classes_number.
- `classes_a_pk_classes_types_p`: percentage of partially known classes after the OntCatOWL execution with relation to the total number of classes. Calculation formula is: classes_a_pk_classes_types_p  = classes_a_pk_classes_types_v/classes_a_total_classes_number.
- `classes_a_tk_classes_types_p`: percentage of totally known classes after the OntCatOWL execution with relation to the total number of classes. Calculation formula is: classes_a_tk_classes_types_p  = classes_a_tk_classes_types_v/classes_a_total_classes_number.
- `diff_tu_classes_types_v_d`: difference (in units) between the number of totally unknown classes before and after the OntCatOWL execution. The calculation formula is: diff_tu_classes_types_v_d = classes_a_tu_classes_types_v - classes_b_tu_classes_types_v.
- `diff_pk_classes_types_v_d`: difference (in units) between the number of  partially known classes before and after the OntCatOWL execution. The calculation formula is: diff_pk_classes_types_v_d = classes_a_pk_classes_types_v - classes_b_pk_classes_types_v.
- `diff_tk_classes_types_v_d`: difference (in units) between the number of totally known classes before and after the OntCatOWL execution. The calculation formula is: diff_tk_classes_types_v_d = classes_a_tk_classes_types_v - classes_b_tk_classes_types_v.
- `diff_tu_classes_types_p_d`: difference (in percentage) between the percentage of totally unknown classes before and after the OntCatOWL execution. The calculation formula is: diff_tu_classes_types_p_d = classes_a_tu_classes_types_p - classes_b_tu_classes_types_p.
- `diff_pk_classes_types_p_d`: difference (in percentage) between the percentage of  partially known classes before and after the OntCatOWL execution. The calculation formula is: diff_pk_classes_types_p_d = classes_a_pk_classes_types_p - classes_b_pk_classes_types_p.
- `diff_tk_classes_types_p_d`: difference (in percentage) between the percentage of totally known classes before and after the OntCatOWL execution. The calculation formula is: diff_tk_classes_types_p_d = classes_a_tk_classes_types_p - classes_b_tk_classes_types_p.

##### Classifications

Classifications are the gUFO classes (e.g., Kind, Sortal, RigidType) in which an OWL ontology concept can be mapped to (for endurant types, via a `rdf:type` predicate). Considering only Endurant Types, the possible classifications of a class are:
- `gufo:AntiRigidType`
- `gufo:Category`
- `gufo:Kind`
- `gufo:Mixin`
- `gufo:NonRigidType`
- `gufo:NonSortal`
- `gufo:Phase`
- `gufo:PhaseMixin`
- `gufo:RigidType`
- `gufo:Role`
- `gufo:RoleMixin`
- `gufo:SemiRigidType`
- `gufo:Sortal`
- `gufo:SubKind`

Classifications items always have the term "classif_". The different measured or calculated aspects are:
- Measuring moments: before ("_b"), after ("_a"), and difference (prefix "diff_" and suffix "_d") between the measuring moments.
- Knowledge about classifications: total number, known, and unknown classifications. The total number is the sum of known and unknown classifications.
- Data format: measured values (suffix "_v") (i.e., units), and percentages (suffix "_p").

###### List of Items

- `classif_b_total_classif_types_v`: total number of classifications available for all the classes in the file `taxonomy.ttl` used in the software before the execution of OntCatOWL rules. The total number of classifications is the number of classifications available for a single class multiplied by the number of classes in the model. As no classification is included or excluded during the execution of the software, classif_b_total_classif_types_v = classif_a_total_classif_types_v. Also, classif_b_total_classif_types_v = classif_b_unknown_classif_types_v + classif_b_known_classif_types_v.
- `classif_b_unknown_classif_types_v`: is the sum of all unknown classifications of all classes before the execution of OntCatOWL rules.
- `classif_b_known_classif_types_v`: is the sum of all known classifications of all classes before the execution of OntCatOWL rules.
- `classif_a_total_classif_types_v`: total number of classifications available for the classes in the file `taxonomy.ttl` used in the software after the execution of OntCatOWL rules. The total number of classifications is the number of classifications available for a single class multiplied by the number of classes in the model. As no classification is included or excluded during the execution of the software, classif_b_total_classif_types_v = classif_a_total_classif_types_v. Also, classif_a_total_classif_types_v = classif_a_unknown_classif_types_v + classif_a_known_classif_types_v.
- `classif_a_unknown_classif_types_v`: is the sum of all unknown classifications of all classes after the execution of OntCatOWL rules.
- `classif_a_known_classif_types_v`: is the sum of all known classifications of all classes after the execution of OntCatOWL rules.
- `classif_b_total_classif_types_p`: this field must be ignored for this test.
- `classif_b_unknown_classif_types_p`: percentage of unknown classification types before the OntCatOWL execution in relation to the quantity of all classifications. The calculation formula is: classif_b_unknown_classif_types_p = classif_b_unknown_classif_types_v/classif_b_total_classif_types_v.
- `classif_b_known_classif_types_p`: percentage of known classification types before the OntCatOWL execution in relation to the quantity of all classifications. The calculation formula is: classif_b_known_classif_types_p = classif_b_known_classif_types_v/classif_b_total_classif_types_v.
- `classif_a_total_classif_types_p`: this field must be ignored for this test.
- `classif_a_unknown_classif_types_p`: percentage of unknown classification types after the OntCatOWL execution in relation to the quantity of all classifications. The calculation formula is: classif_a_unknown_classif_types_p = classif_a_unknown_classif_types_v/classif_a_total_classif_types_v.
- `classif_a_known_classif_types_p`: percentage of known classification types after the OntCatOWL execution in relation to the quantity of all classifications. The calculation formula is: classif_a_known_classif_types_p = classif_a_known_classif_types_v/classif_a_total_classif_types_v.
- `diff_total_classif_types_v_d`: difference in units between the quantity of the total classification types before and after the OntCatOWL execution. The results must always equal zero. The calculation formula is: diff_total_classif_types_v_d = classif_a_total_classif_types_v - classif_b_total_classif_types_v.
- `diff_unknown_classif_types_v_d`: difference in units between the quantity of unknown classification types before and after the OntCatOWL execution. The calculation formula is: diff_unknown_classif_types_v_d = classif_a_unknown_classif_types_v - classif_b_unknown_classif_types_v.
- `diff_known_classif_types_v_d`: difference in units between the quantity of known classification types before and after the OntCatOWL execution. The calculation formula is: diff_known_classif_types_v_d = classif_a_known_classif_types_v - classif_b_known_classif_types_v.
- `diff_total_classif_types_p_d`: difference in percentage between the quantity of the total classification types before and after the OntCatOWL execution. The calculation formula is: diff_total_classif_types_p_d = classif_a_total_classif_types_p - classif_b_total_classif_types_p. The results must always equal zero.
- `diff_unknown_classif_types_p_d`: difference in percentage between the quantity of unknown classification types before and after the OntCatOWL execution. The calculation formula is: diff_unknown_classif_types_p_d = classif_a_unknown_classif_types_p - classif_b_unknown_classif_types_p.
- `diff_known_classif_types_p_d`: difference in percentage between the quantity of known classification types before and after the OntCatOWL execution. The calculation formula is: diff_known_classif_types_p_d = classif_a_known_classif_types_p - classif_b_known_classif_types_p.


##### Other Items

Besides information about classes and classifications, two additional fields are also presented in the csv file:

- `execution`: is the first column of the csv file. Registers the number of the execution of the test in which the next fields were measured or calculated.
- `incomplete_classes_found`: is the last column of the csv file. Registers how many incomplete classes OntCatOWL identified during the execution.

#### Execution Times CSV Files

For every execution of the test, this file registers the time (in seconds) each individual rule took for being performed and also the execution total time.

A single file entitled `execution_times.csv` is generated for each model aggregating information about all its OntCatOWL executions.

The items registered in the csv files are:

- `execution`: is the first column of the csv file. Registers the number of the execution of the test in which the next fields were measured or calculated.
- `k_s_sup`: execution time (in seconds) for the specific OntCatOWL rule of the same name.
- `s_k_sub`: execution time (in seconds) for the specific OntCatOWL rule of the same name.
- `t_k_sup`: execution time (in seconds) for the specific OntCatOWL rule of the same name.
- `ns_s_sup`: execution time (in seconds) for the specific OntCatOWL rule of the same name.
- `s_ns_sub`: execution time (in seconds) for the specific OntCatOWL rule of the same name.
- `r_ar_sup`: execution time (in seconds) for the specific OntCatOWL rule of the same name.
- `ar_r_sub`: execution time (in seconds) for the specific OntCatOWL rule of the same name.
- `ns_sub_r`: execution time (in seconds) for the specific OntCatOWL rule of the same name.
- `ks_sf_in`: execution time (in seconds) for the specific OntCatOWL rule of the same name.
- `n_r_t`: execution time (in seconds) for the specific OntCatOWL rule of the same name.
- `ns_s_spe`: execution time (in seconds) for the specific OntCatOWL rule of the same name.
- `nk_k_sup`: execution time (in seconds) for the specific OntCatOWL rule of the same name.
- `s_nsup_k`: execution time (in seconds) for the specific OntCatOWL rule of the same name.
- `nrs_ns_r`: execution time (in seconds) for the specific OntCatOWL rule of the same name.
- `total_time`: sum of the execution times of all fourteen rules implemented in OntCatOWL. I.e., the sum of all other items registered in this file (except for the item “execution”).


#### Execution YAML Files

To be done. Each execution generates one file of this type.

#### Execution Results CSV Files

To be done. Each execution generates one file of this type.

### Additional Files

#### Test 1 AC Inconsistencies YAML File

Considering an incomplete model as complete may cause inconsistencies—and the catalog models used for this test don’t explicitly present this information. Hence, the execution of Test 1 AC resulted in the detection of inconsistencies in some models. We reported these inconsistencies in the file `test_1_ac_inconsistencies.yaml`, where each item is a dataset with a list of the classes used as input in the executions where the inconsistencies were found. When an inconsistency is detected, the software execution is interrupted, and the next execution starts.