# Test 2 Files

This document describes the structure of the files generated by the execution of Scior Test 2. For a complete description of Test 2, please access [this link](https://github.com/unibz-core/Scior-Tester/blob/main/documentation/Scior-Tester-Test2.md).

Each section below regards a different type of file. The files here generated are equivalent to the ones generated in Test 1, hence here we are going to rely on the descriptions presented in that test's documentation, highlighting only the differences that the generated files may have. The nomenclature's definitions of the files presented here can be accessed in [this link](https://github.com/unibz-core/Scior-Dataset#nomenclature-of-files-and-folders).

Test 2 was executed in both complete and incomplete Scior modes (more information about the Scior execution modes are presented in [this link](https://github.com/unibz-core/Scior/blob/main/documentation/Scior-Execution-Modes.md)), generating the content presented in two folders inside each one of the catalog's datasets: _tt002_ac_ and _tt002_an_, respectively. These folders contain the same type of documents here described, but with the different content that resulted from the different execution modes.

## Contents

- [Execution Statistics _csv_ Files](#execution-statistics-csv-files)
- [Execution Times _csv_ Files](#execution-times-csv-files)
- [Settings _csv_ Files](#settings-csv-files)
- [Inconsistencies _csv_ File](#inconsistencies-csv-file)
- [Results _yaml_ Files](#results-yaml-files)
- [Results _csv_ Files](#results-csv-files)
- [Knowledge Matrix _csv_ Files](#knowledge-matrix-csv-files)
- [Divergences _csv_ Files](#divergences-csv-files)

## Execution Statistics _csv_ Files

The execution statistics _csv_ files generated by Test 2 have the same structure as the ones generated in Test 1 (i.e., all columns available in those files are also available in this test's ones), with the addition of the following column:

- `percentage`: integer that indicates the percentage of the model's classes that were used as input for Test 2

To access the complete description of the [execution statistics _csv_ file in Test 1, click here](https://github.com/unibz-core/Scior-Dataset/blob/main/documentation/Scior-Dataset-Test1.md#execution-statistics-files-execution_statistics_ncsv).

This file is generated according to the pattern `statistics_XXX_tt002_MM_txYYY_exZZZ_pcKKK.csv` (e.g., _statistics_aguiar2018rdbs-o_tt002_an_tx001_ex001_pc005.csv_, for the first execution using 5 percent of classes as input of the taxonomy 001 of the dataset aguiar2018rdbs-o).

## Execution Times _csv_ Files

Just like the previous file, the column `percentage` is the only difference between the execution times file generated for Test 1 and Test 2. The new column indicates the percentage of input classes that were used for the test results in that line.

To access the complete description of the [execution times _csv_ file in Test 1, click here](https://github.com/unibz-core/Scior-Dataset/blob/main/documentation/Scior-Dataset-Test1.md#execution-times-files-execution_times_ncsv).

This file is generated according to the pattern `times_XXX_tt002_MM_txYYY_exZZZ_pcKKK.csv` (e.g., _times_aguiar2018rdbs-o_tt002_an_tx001_ex001_pc005.csv_, for the first execution using 5 percent of classes as input of the taxonomy 001 of the dataset aguiar2018rdbs-o).

## Settings _csv_ Files

This file extends the one presented in Test 1 ([available here](https://github.com/unibz-core/Scior-Dataset/blob/main/documentation/Scior-Dataset-Test1.md#settings-csv-files)), registering not only information about the used hardware and software, but also the configurations set performing Test 2.

A single file entitled `settings_XXX_tt002_MM.csv` is generated once for each model's (e.g., _settings_aguiar2018rdbs-o_tt002_an.csv_).

In addition to the columns described for the Settings _csv_ file in Test 1, the corresponding file for Test 2 is added with the following columns:

- `minimum_allowed_number_classes`
- `percentage_initial`
- `percentage_final`
- `percentage_rate`
- `number_of_executions_per_dataset_per_percentage`

These columns correspond to the variables that must be set by the user before executing Test 2, as [described here](https://github.com/unibz-core/OntCatOWL-Tester/blob/main/documentation/OntCatOWL-Tester-Test2.md#input-and-configuration).

Considering that this file is created only once for each test in a dataset, it will always have only two lines: a first one with the headers and the second one with values.

## Inconsistencies _csv_ File

This file reports each execution that leads to an inconsistency in Test 2 in the dataset's taxonomy being evaluated. A single file is created for the whole test and the creation only occurs when inconsistencies are found. The _csv_ file contains the following columns:

- `taxonomy_name`: a string representing name of the taxonomy file in which the inconsistency was detected.
- `percentage`: integer that indicates the percentage of the model's classes that were used as input for Test 2 when the inconsistency was found
- `execution_number`: is the first column of the _csv_ file. Registers the number of the execution of the test in which the inconsistency was detected

This file is generated according to the pattern `inconsistencies_tt002_MM.csv` (e.g., _inconsistencies_tt002_ac.csv_).

The Scior-Tester creates this file only when Test 2 detected at least one inconsistency during its executions.

## Results _yaml_ Files

There are no structural differences between the results _yaml_ files generated for Test 1 and for Test 2. To access the complete description of the [results _yaml_ files in Test 1, click here.](https://github.com/unibz-core/Scior-Dataset/blob/main/documentation/Scior-Dataset-Test1.md#results-yaml-files)

This file is generated according to the pattern `complete_XXX_tt002_MM_txYYY_exZZZ_pcKKK.yaml` (e.g., _complete_aguiar2018rdbs-o_tt002_an_tx001_ex001_pc005.yaml_, for the first execution using 5 percent of classes as input of the taxonomy 001 of the dataset aguiar2018rdbs-o).

## Results _csv_ Files

There are no structural differences between the results _csv_ files generated for Test 1 and for Test 2. To access the complete description of the [results _csv_ files in Test 1, click here.](https://github.com/unibz-core/Scior-Dataset/blob/main/documentation/Scior-Dataset-Test1.md#results-csv-files)

This file is generated according to the pattern `simple_XXX_tt002_MM_txYYY_exZZZ_pcKKK.csv` (e.g., _simple_aguiar2018rdbs-o_tt002_an_tx001_ex001_pc005.csv_, for the first execution using 5 percent of classes as input of the taxonomy 001 of the dataset aguiar2018rdbs-o).

## Knowledge Matrix _csv_ Files

There are no structural differences between the knowledge matrix _csv_ files generated for Test 1 and for Test 2. To access the complete description of the [knowledge matrix _csv_ files in Test 1, click here.](https://github.com/unibz-core/Scior-Dataset/blob/main/documentation/Scior-Dataset-Test1.md#knowledge-matrix-csv-files)

This file is generated according to the pattern `matrix_XXX_tt002_MM_txYYY_exZZZ_pcKKK.csv` (e.g., _matrix_aguiar2018rdbs-o_tt002_an_tx001_ex001_pc005.csv_, for the first execution using 5 percent of classes as input of the taxonomy 001 of the dataset aguiar2018rdbs-o).

## Divergences _csv_ Files

There are no structural differences between the Divergences _csv_ files generated for Test 1 and for Test 2. To access the complete description of the [Divergences _csv_ files in Test 1, click here.](https://github.com/unibz-core/Scior-Dataset/blob/main/documentation/Scior-Dataset-Test1.md#divergences-csv-files)

This file is generated in the `catalog/` folder according to the pattern `divergences_tt002_MM.csv` (e.g., _divergences_tt002_an.csv_).
